For each edge u,v in graph dfs visits v before it visits u, ref mitocw.
Dfs does not work for cyclic graph it needs some alteration ,A graph is cyclic if it has backward edge.
Undirected graph without cycles is tree.not true for DAG
For graph algos E dominates over V and VlogV
Because E is of the order V^2.
shortest and longest path algo Using dfs in dag
Dijkstra algo: whenever a new shorter path is found to a node then relax all the outgoing edges of the node, repeat this recursively.
Initially shortest path to src is 0, start from here. This wirks but each edge is relaxed more than once.

1Relax all the outgoing edges of a node after the shortest path to that node is found.

Dijkstra-In each iteration you extract a node from heap,the shortest path to the extracted node is its current path

In dijkstra's algorithm nodes are visited in ascending order of their distance from source

If a b c d e is shortest path from a to e then shortest path between any two nodes in this path lies in this path itself 


E.g shortest path from b to d is b c d

When y6ou have dag topologically sorr it

If P is a shortest path beteween any two nodes then no. Of edges in P is less than equal to V-1 where V is no. Of nodes
Bellman ford: at each iteration all edges are relaxed,at ith iteration all the nodes at distance(path length ) i-1 from from src are saturated(d(v)==del(v)).The maximum distance a node could have is V-1.
d(v) of any node v decresaases in each iteration.

A undirected graph without cycle is Tree,Tree contains n nodes connected by exactly n-1 edges.Adding any additional edges forms cycle
For cycle detection related problem store the visitTime instead of boolean isVisited

Recursion works only on DAGs.i.e it works only when the subprolem can be topilogiologically sorted.


2 types Of subproblem in dp:
1. Operate on each index for a recursive call(Similar to pick and not pick in backtracking ,here the operations would be anything according to problem)
2.Iterate through all values and find the one which best fits(Similar to permutation problem in backyratracking i.e iterate theough all posible values in each recursive call)


For few dp problems the relation would be dp[i]=sum(dp[j] , i+1<=j<=k) .This problem requires n^2 time. for each index it takes O(n) time, using prefix sum for this type of problem solves it in linear time

Other problems like dp[i]=max(known constant,some_func(j) for i+1<j<n) can also be solved in linear time tracking max of some_fun(j) while visiting each index
Example stock buy and sell 2, Stock buy and sell with cooldown 
